During yesterday's Dumping with Scrump, on the whole Patreon purge thing,
Scrump and I missed a few important bits of information. To be frank, we recorded that
Monday. And the video came out on Thursday, so a few new events have developed during that time
period. Let's discuss them now. Very quickly, Sargon of Akkad was removed from Patreon. They
claim it's due to some racial epithets he used during a livestream on Michelle Caitlin's relatively
tiny channel. This is what I mean about the channel, I just can't be bothered to deal with
this. The context, as best as I can figure out, is that he was addressing some members of the
alt-right in the chatroom of that stream, and he insulted them by accusing them of being exactly
what they hate the most, and he used their racially charged language to do it. Seeing
as that stream was 10 months old, and that recently both people from the COW boards on
8chan and Ethan Ralph's Discord have been mass emailing a paste bin containing this stream and
other events to Patreon, it's highly likely that Patreon wasn't aware of this stream before these
groups sent them the info, in my opinion. However, due to both the wording of Patreon's terms of
service, as well as an interview with Patreon's CEO, Jack Conte, it's clear that Patreon's
official stance is that it does not ban for off-platform action, which suddenly casts
Patreon's credibility into doubt because that is exactly what they have done with Sargon.
Patreon's emails to Sargon stated that because Sargon's Patreon was about his Sargon brand,
and because the Sargon brand is known for making guest appearances on other people's streams,
technically Sargon's appearance on Michelle Caitlin's channel was still covered by the
terms of service. That's quite a stretch, but it's one that Patreon doubled down on,
with Jack Conte stating in a private message with Tim Poole that he knew the terms of service was
worded in such a way that it was not obvious to anyone that Sargon's behaviours violated it.
Despite this, Patreon's Jacqueline Hart, speaking for their Trust and Safety committee,
penned a response to the whole thing titled Hate Speech on Patreon. This response contains a
transcript of Sargon's remarks on Michelle Caitlin's channel, with Jacqueline providing
Patreon's reasoning as to why this somehow violates their terms of service despite being
off-site. She specifically says, in this case, Sargon used racial slurs to insult others,
and specifically linked those slurs with negative generalizations of behaviour,
in contrast to how people of other races act. He also used a slur related to sexual orientation
to generally insult others, taken in whole with all of the context. This violates our
community guidelines. But that wasn't with all of the context, was it Jacqueline?
Nick Monroe, known primarily for being a stand-up chap on Twitter,
did the hard work of rewatching the Sargon remarks, making a direct transcript,
and comparing that with what Jacqueline provided as a justification in her response piece.
There's some striking differences. As it turns out, Patreon's transcript of the stream removes
the fact that Sargon was referring specifically to people he identified as alt-right trolls within
the livestream's chat room. Without this context, it sounds like Sargon's just on a diatribe.
An entire paragraph is skipped over, further providing context that Sargon's replying to the
chat, but even more telling, mentions of Sargon's working-class background is also removed from
Patreon's quotation. In the third paragraph, Patreon explicitly leaves out another reference
to the working-class side of the conversation. Jacqueline did not provide all of the context,
as she claims, but left more than half of the conversation on the cutting room floor,
specifically the parts that would run counter to the idea that Sargon is a racist.
And it's this narrative that the media would run with, publishing articles that misquote
Jacqueline's interpretation of the truth, with the consequence of their content straying even
further from the mark. When you look up Jacqueline Hart on LinkedIn, you'll find she's got an
impressive resume. She's only been at Patreon for the past three months, but she has a number
of successful financial and banking jobs under her belt, including an eight-year stint at PayPal.
She's a banker. She's not a community manager. She's not somebody fit for the Trust and Safety
Board at Patreon, unless that phrase refers to the trust of investors and the safety of Patreon from
lawsuits. Jacqueline Hart doesn't have creators' interests in mind. She doesn't have the community's
interests in mind. She has the bank's interests in mind. Nonetheless, Patreon would continue to
double down. A fellow named Nuance Bro was on a call with Patreon, a call he wasn't allowed to
record, and in it, Patreon told him that this was not the first strike on Sargon's account.
Nuance Bro later received this email. Jacqueline asked me to send over these two bits of
information your way. The two links refer to the 2017 VidCon incident, where Sargon was sitting
front row at one of Anita Sarkeesian's talks, quietly listening, Anita decided to point him
out to the crowd, calling him a garbage human, and the entirety of the radical left, including
VidCon's weak need operators, decided to come down on Sargon for harassing Anita with his presence.
If you google my name on YouTube, you get shitheads like this dude, who are making these
dumbass videos, that just say the same shit, but they're effortless. I can't give you attention,
because you're a garbage human. Whatever, dude. But the fact that these dudes are making endless
videos that just go after every feminist, over and over and over again, I think is a part of the
issue of why we have to have these conversations. We don't just get to be online. This event was
already considered by Patreon to be a potential reason to remove Sargon from the platform,
but they ruled in his favour over a year ago. The case was closed, and yet now, it's considered
part of their manifest observable behaviour bullshit. And considering Jacqueline's extensive
history with PayPal, I think it's important to discuss the PayPal Patreon relationship.
Patreon initially had a lot of trouble getting PayPal to work with them, due to Patreon allowing
adult content and PayPal expressly forbidding it. What's interesting is that PayPal cut a
specific deal with Patreon to peddle in the not-safe-for-work, and explicitly stated that
this was a privilege for Patreon only, and not an overarching change in their policy.
This is important because it provides context regarding how Patreon treats its competitors.
A similar startup to Patreon, Memberful, was bought out by them last August,
and an article written about the event puts forward the theory that as content platforms
begin to popularize their own payment methods, like YouTube superchats, Twitch subs, and so on,
Patreon may be feeling the pressure to consolidate its industry. I'm going to speculate here a bit,
so this is just my opinion, but let's set the stage. Patreon has a special relationship with
PayPal. Patreon takes on a new trust and safety head, Jacqueline Hart, who used to work at PayPal.
Within three months of Jacqueline working at Patreon, Patreon bans Sargon, and Conte,
Hart, and her trust and safety team can only offer up deliberate misquotes, old matters already
settled by their team, and blatant lies about the terms of service to justify the banning.
And then, when Sargon is invited to join SubscribeStar, another Patreon alternative run
by a CEO who, based on his various writings on the topic, seems more committed to free speech
and less likely to be taken over like Memberful was, SubscribeStar sees PayPal and Stripe pull
out of their operation within days. In my opinion, this is the behavior of a cartel, not a free
market, and according to some videos on the YouTube Lawyers channel, there may be grounds for legal
action regarding the US's antitrust laws. There are a lot of what's called conscious parallelism,
or parallel consciousness, I'm not sure what's the correct term here. The idea being that
competitors often follow one another, and the fact that you can point to two companies doing
what is otherwise the same kind of action, let's say banning people of a certain political belief
or certain political persuasion, that in itself doesn't show you any concerted effort that
otherwise would be considered illegal, let's say, under antitrust law. Something changed here.
A lot of people said, we have to get off of Patreon. But not just get off of Patreon,
they said, no, there is a solution, let's move to SubscribeStar. SubscribeStar, up until that point,
I never heard about. And almost immediately PayPal responded. First it was PayPal, now it was Stripe
2, pulling their payment capability, their credit card processing and cashing ability from
Subscribestar. We've seen PayPal pull support for Gab. That did not make any difference,
at least in my mind. Why? Because if PayPal acts in a way that's anti-competitive, right,
against a company such as Gab. Gab is not a competitor to PayPal. PayPal is permitted to
express its ideals. You might disagree with it, but it's called freedom of speech. They're entitled,
just like you, to express, and they're expressing their ideals through their actions. So when I saw
Patreon ban Stargun of Akkad, okay, it's conscious parallelism, okay? It could be unrelated
companies, unrelated decision by multiple companies to do the same thing, maybe cultural.
But then almost immediately we saw an action by PayPal against Subscribestar. Now, it's a brand
new company, for all purposes, did nothing wrong except be a competitor to Patreon, who suddenly
got a lot of free publicity because they became the only real alternative to Patreon. What I saw
is PayPal, a credit card processing, react to something that was going to affect Patreon from
a competitive perspective, and that changed everything. Since this all went down, a lot of
people have pulled out of Patreon. Many large creators, as well as thousands of contributors,
have simply decided to leave the platform, even though there's not yet a stable alternative. We
went over a number of them during Dumping with Scrump, but even more have left since then,
including the aforementioned YouTube lawyer, as well as the fifth largest account on the platform,
Sword and Scale. Sword and Scale is a largely apolitical operation, and there are a few people
lambasting them on Twitter, claiming that they're caving to alt-right pressure, which is ridiculous,
seeing as it is Patreon that has caved to an alt-right email campaign against Sargon. But here's
what these people, and creators like Jeff Holiday whining away about his income, don't understand.
This actually isn't about politics. I mean, sure, it's about Sargon's politics. His channel's
political, and it seems like Jacqueline's been looking for a reason to sweep him off the platform
since she arrived. Her actions were political, and she's grasping at whatever straws she can
to try and salvage her dumpster fire company. Jacqueline herself seems to be a corporatized
variant of the SJW, with her personal Twitter talking about women's only business events,
and hashtag WeRunTheWorld and other such nonsense. But the event itself, the Patreon Purge,
the crowds of people abandoning the company for Subscribestar and Gab's upcoming payment processor,
and Jordan Peterson's In The Work solution, all that has become apolitical. It's not about the
politics of Sargon or the counter-politics of Patreon anymore. Patreon's business model is
based on consumer trust, more so than other tech companies like Facebook, Twitter, or Google.
It has to be. Patreon skims off the top as part of its service to crowdfund creators.
People directly give Patreon money, and Patreon just torpedoed the public trust in its platform
over an ideological spat that a new employee instigated. And it is ideological, because you
can hop on Patreon right now and find the very word Sargon used off platform directly on their
website, by creators who, right now, aren't banned. But more than that, you can find Patreon
profiles advocating for leftist violence and revolution, right in their award tiers.
People have asked Patreon about this, and Patreon said that they just can't comment on other
people's accounts. But wait a minute, that's all Patreon's been doing ever since this whole thing
kicked up. They'll email Sargon's fans about it, they'll talk to people on the phone, Jacqueline
will pen a sloppy response piece, pissing on Patreon's users and calling it rain, but now you
won't talk about other people's accounts? This is why Patreon has lost the public's trust.
The business world likes certainty. Entrepreneurs like to be able to make plans, grow a consumer
base, and at least be given the opportunity to make reasonable estimations about the future
and invest accordingly. This is why Venezuela is a shithole, and why any other form of socialism
or communism invariably turns into a shithole. If an all-powerful authority can come along and
wipe out your investments, seize your property, and leave you with nothing, nobody's going to
work or invest long term. They'll get what they can while the getting's good, because trust in
the system has been shattered, and people no longer think that, even with proper precautions,
there's a high chance of long term planning and investing in the future working out.
Patreon has sent all of us a very clear message. They have the power to destroy businesses without
warning. They can decide something you said a year ago is now bad. They can decide issues put to bed
two years ago can be brought up again. They will make new rules and enforce them retroactively.
And no defense will ever be enough. And because this isn't just views or clicks, like on YouTube
or whatever, but people's own money that they're spending, they're pulling out. And of course they
are. Why wouldn't they be? Patreon as an investment is unstable, unpredictable, and dangerous to rely
on. Nobody's going to start up a factory in Venezuela. Why would they open a Patreon account?
And I think partly what a lot of your creators are fearing now is that mob rule. It'll just get
kicked up enough and that you'll just be under pressure, sort of that the dam has broke already.
I think that's a big fear here. No, I just completely disagree with that. And
anybody who's watching who's worried about that. Yeah, we're just it's a different system. You just
don't have to worry about this shit. You just don't have to worry about it. Like people like
you and people, most people who are like engaging in healthy dialogue and talking about tough issues
like this is just not something that concerns most creators. And it like kills me a little bit that
there's this fear.